where we are
Hi this is video progress report for group 17 in cs 419, we're fuel prices visualizor web app 

Currently where we are is we map zoomable, connect it with the fuel price data and finally colorize it. And so far what we've don is that 

1. We found a suitable API for getting the fuel prices according to type and searchable by zip code. Initially we were going to use mygasfeed api, which is supposed to be free but it turns out that it's broken. But we found out that mygasfeed uses an api from mapquest, which actually get correct results. We haven't tested this fully but has worked so far on every zip code that I've tried.

2. We were able to make a backend using express to do an http call to retrieve this data and send it to the front where the calculations for the average prices can be done. And in the front we're just using standard jquery as well as the d3js library for visualization part. 

3. In order to create the map, including the geographic data, colors, zooming functions, and all that, we made use of a github repo  called simple-map-d3 made specifically for creating clorpleth maps. The problem with this was that the guy didn't implement all the features directly into this simple-map-d3 library in order for our project to go without problems. The visualization of the geographical contours was able be done by importing a file in topojson format, which works fine for showing the states but in the future we would need to tweak this to display zip code areas. The zip code data can be found on the US census bureau website but it has to be converted to the right format before being used with simple-map-d3 and I was able to find a tool on github to do this, which is called us-atlas, made by the same guy who created the topojson format. https://github.com/mbostock/topojson

Currently we're at the part where we need to make the map zoomable, which I think can be done by invoking either native d3 functionality or by tweaking the code inside simple-map. In our final product, we would want the colors from the cloropleth map generated dynamically since that's the only way we found this project to make sense - in other words if we had a map that showed fuel prices from some time and that never changes, not sure how useful that would be - so the colors on the cloropleth map are generated dynamically as the fuel prices change. But since there are like 40 thousand zip codes, generating it when the map starts up showing the entire country, that would take a very long time, so we decided to make the map start out as it is, just showing states, and as the user zooms in to a specific part such as county or city, then we can show the different fuel prices by colors. So this means that at this point the zooming in, is the most most important. 